The auxiliary power of the diesel generators is of major importance for the operation of the ship. Consequently, a large ship carries three or four different diesel generators. In particular, on containerships carrying refrigerated containers (reefers) the need for auxiliary power is increased. Therefore, monitoring and evaluation of the operation of these machines is required in order to achieve the lowest possible consumption and therefore savings. The thesis describes the operation of four generators of a container ship, including reefers, based on operational data over a period of three and a half years and aims to correlate variables governing the operation of the generators and to predict fuel consumption. To achieve the objectives, the data are subjected to an initial processing, the ship operation is divided into two main operational states (sailing and berthing) and a statistical analysis is performed on the initial state of the systems. A linear correlation analysis based on the Pearson coefficient is then carried out, indicating the correlation between fuel consumption and the other variables. After a subsequent filtering (cleansing) cycle, a linear regression model for each of the two main operating states is synthesized for the prediction of the fuel consumption of the generators. In the predictive models, the predictive indicators are the electrical load, the number of reefers and the generators’ operating time. In conclusion, a comparison of the operating condition models is made which indicates the open sea operation as optimal in terms of fuel consumption.
